readme.md, before:

[![continuous integration](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MPI-IS-BambooAgent/sw_badges/master/badges/plans/corerobotics/tag.svg?sanitize=true)](url)
[![check_main_branch_and_deploy_doc](https://github.com/machines-in-motion/mpi_cmake_modules/actions/workflows/deploy_doc.yml/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/machines-in-motion/mpi_cmake_modules/actions/workflows/deploy_doc.yml)

Readme
------

### Introduction

This package `mpi_cmake_modules` defines a list of usefull cmake macros.
It can be used by simply depending on it using ament.
The documentation can be seen [here](https://machines-in-motion.github.io/)

### Getting started

In order to use the CMake macros contained in this package one need to depend
on it in the following way:

    find_package(mpi_cmake_module REQUIRED)

**Note:** This will perform by default:
- the `define_os()` macro defined in cmake/os_detection.cmake
- the `setup_xenomai()` macro defined in the cmake/xenomai.cmake
  if the OS Xenomai is detected.

### License

BSD 3-Clause

### Authors

- Vincent Berenz (vberenz@tue.mpg.de)
- Maximilien Naveau (mnaveau@tue.mpg.de)
- Felix Widmaier (fwidmaier@tue.mpg.de)

Commit message:

Replace mpi_cpp_format
Instead of our own implementation use the `run-clang-format` script from
[here](https://github.com/Sarcasm/run-clang-format).

The main advantage is that it allows specifying files/directories that
should be excluded from the formatting, either via `--exclude` or by
adding a file `.clang-format-ignore` to the repository.

The copy of run-clang-format added here is extended a bit to allow
specifying a _clang-format file.

The `cpp_format.py` module is removed and `mpi_cpp_format` is replaced
by a thin wrapper around `run-clang-format` that sets some parameters
such that the behaviour is mostly the same as with the old
`mpi_cpp_format`.

readme.md, after:

[![continuous integration](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MPI-IS-BambooAgent/sw_badges/master/badges/plans/corerobotics/tag.svg?sanitize=true)](url)
[![check_main_branch_and_deploy_doc](https://github.com/machines-in-motion/mpi_cmake_modules/actions/workflows/deploy_doc.yml/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/machines-in-motion/mpi_cmake_modules/actions/workflows/deploy_doc.yml)

Readme
------

### Introduction

This package `mpi_cmake_modules` defines a list of usefull cmake macros.
It can be used by simply depending on it using ament.
The documentation can be seen [here](https://machines-in-motion.github.io/)

### Getting started

In order to use the CMake macros contained in this package one need to depend
on it in the following way:

    find_package(mpi_cmake_module REQUIRED)

**Note:** This will perform by default:
- the `define_os()` macro defined in cmake/os_detection.cmake
- the `setup_xenomai()` macro defined in the cmake/xenomai.cmake
  if the OS Xenomai is detected.

### License

BSD 3-Clause unless specified differently in the file header

### Authors

- Vincent Berenz (vberenz@tue.mpg.de)
- Maximilien Naveau (mnaveau@tue.mpg.de)
- Felix Widmaier (fwidmaier@tue.mpg.de)
