doc/python.md, before:

Python
======

## Introduction

This module is very important as it provide tools to search for the Python
libraries and includes depending on the required Python version.
Plus some tools to create python bindings using boost python or pybind11.

## Usage

### Search for Python

The simplest thing is here to find the default Python library:

    search_for_python()

This macros is influenced by `PYTHON_EXECUTABLE` and `PYTHON_LIBRARY` which can
be set for Python2 via the command:

    catkin build --cmake-args -DPYTHON_EXECUTABLE=`which python2` -DPYTHON_LIBRARY=`/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libpython2.7.so`

or for Python3 via the command

    catkin build --cmake-args -DPYTHON_EXECUTABLE=`which python3` -DPYTHON_LIBRARY=`/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libpython3.5m.so`

Please make sure the library exists at the defined place before executing the
above commands.

### Search for Numpy

Numpy includes can be found via the following macro:

    search_for_numpy()

The macro `search_for_python()` must have been called before hand.

Commit message:

mnaveau/ros2 (#23)
* First attempt to move to ROS2

* add the lint information

* remove redundant include() in cmake

* fix the use of C++11

* remove the doxygen documentation build

* install the _clang-format in the python package

* remove lining and C++ standard

* update readme properly

* add cereal and rt find_package

* installt eh resource files and add the path to the ament index

* use the ament-index to export the resources folder + export the dg python module properly

* update warning to deprecation for the documentation

* try to export RT correctly

* add a tool to print all target properties

* added mujoco cmake

* removed mujoco.cmake

* retrieved sphinx/conf.py

* fix dg plugin install

* update the dynamic_graph plugin build

* update dg module build

* update the dg build

* fix the resource access folder

Co-authored-by: Vincent Berenz <vberenz@tuebingen.mpg.de>

doc/python.md, after:

Python
======

## Introduction

This module is very important as it provide tools to search for the Python
libraries and includes depending on the required Python version.
Plus some tools to create python bindings using boost python or pybind11.

## Usage

### Search for Python

The simplest thing is here to find the default Python library:

    search_for_python()

This macros is influenced by `PYTHON_EXECUTABLE` and `PYTHON_LIBRARY` which can
be set for Python2 via the command:

    colcon build --ament-cmake-args -DPYTHON_EXECUTABLE=`which python2`

you can add `-DPYTHON_LIBRARY=`/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libpython2.7.so``
if needed

or for Python3 via the command:

    colcon build --ament-cmake-args -DPYTHON_EXECUTABLE=`which python3`

you can add `-DPYTHON_LIBRARY=`/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libpython3.5m.so``
if needed

Please make sure the library exists at the defined place before executing the
above commands.

### Search for Numpy

Numpy includes can be found via the following macro:

    search_for_numpy()

The macro `search_for_python()` must have been called before hand.
